Title: Introducing django-makeconf, a settings-based Config File Generator
Date: 2015-09-10 17:07
Tags: django, python, aws, elasticbeanstalk
Category: django

As I've been using Elastic Beanstalk more and more, I've been finding the need
to alter my
[.ebextensions](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/customize-containers.html)
files per-environment. I may be using different credentials files in dev and
QA, using different sets of AWS credentials (and S3 buckets), or just trying
to get my environment name into a script. Initially, I had Jenkins running
`sed` commands before deploying to each environment, but eventually I realized
that my Django settings files could be the source of truth for each
environment. I ended up creating
[django-makeconf](https://github.com/ethanmcc/django-makeconf)
to build other configuration files that I needed.

The project is really simple -- You just `pip install django-makeconf` and add
`'makeconf'` to your `INSTALLED_APPS` list in your settings. This enables the
`manage.py makeconf` command, which builds a set of configuration files based
on information in your Django settings module. Simple make sure 
`DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE` is set to the configuration you want to use (or use
`manage.py`'s `--settings=` flag).

I've got a private repo of some shared `.ebextensions` files I use regularly,
but I'm also planning on including some more general features, like
[running Celery in Elastic Beanstalk](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/14761468/how-do-you-run-a-worker-with-aws-elastic-beanstalk).
Rather than repeat [the docs](https://github.com/ethanmcc/django-makeconf)
here, I'll go ahead and leave this as an announcement, and possibly publish
some examples in another post.
