Title: Deploy Secure Django Credentials to Elastic Beanstalk from S3
Date: 2015-10-04 19:45
Tags: ci, deploy, jenkins, aws, elastic beanstalk
Category: django

AWS Elastic Beanstalk makes it easy to get a simple application from development into a public web server. If you use a linked RDS instance for storage, the service even handles the population of the database credentials on your application instance by loading them in the environment. If you want to include additional credentials as environment variables, you can do it, but they are unfortunately readable  as plain text in the Elastic Beanstalk console. Instead, I've taken to importing a `credentials.py` file which gets loaded on my instances via encrypted S3 as part of the deploy script.

## credentials.py

Create your `credentials.py` file for the environments you'll be deploying to. Upload them to S3 making sure to enable server-side encryption. Protect the bucket these are stored in. Treat it just like part of a `settings.py` file.

	MY_SECRET_PASSWORD = 'five golDen chickens'
	
(Jeez, that's not really my password. Whatever.)


## Import credentials

In the top of my `base.py`, which is loaded in each of my tier-sepcific config files, I include:

	from config.settings.credentials import *  #noqa
	
Including `#noqa` ensures that
[flake8](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/flake8)
won't register an error, since we really do want to import everything in this case. I include a default `config/settings/credentials.py` that sets dummy variables to enable my tests to pass, or reads those from the environment. That file is overwritten during deployment and copied into place via an `.ebextensions` file.


## .ebextensions

The following code is an `.ebextensions` file with the settings needed to get `credentials.py` installed into your Django application on each deploy. Depending where your credentials files are stored, you'll want to change `config/settings/` to lineup with your directory structure. `container_commands` run from the root of your app:

	commands:
	  01_mkdirs:
	    test: '[ ! -d /var/makeconf ]'
	    command: 'mkdir -p /var/makeconf'
	  02_set_perms:
	    command: 'chown -R wsgi:wsgi /var/makeconf'
	
	container_commands:
	  01_move_credentials:
	    command: 'mv /var/makeconf/credentials.py config/settings/'
	
	files:
	  '/var/makeconf/credentials.py':
	    owner: wsgi
	    group: wsgi
	    mode: '000400'
	    source: https://s3.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/PATH/TO/CREDENTIALS
	    authentication: S3Access
	
	Resources:
	  AWSEBAutoScalingGroup:
	    Metadata:
	      AWS::CloudFormation::Authentication:
	        S3Access:
	          type: S3
	          roleName: my.elastic.beanstalk.iam.role
	          buckets: BUCKET_NAME
	          
	          
## django-makeconf

You're likely going to want a different `credentials.py` file for each tier, and so I recommend using a tool like [django-makeconf](https://github.com/ethanmcc/django-makeconf) to build your `.ebextensions` for each tier. It could be as simple as specifying the following variables in your tier-based Django config files:

 * `CREDENTIALS_BUCKET`
 * `CREDENTIALS_KEY`
 * `EB_IAM_ROLE`

Alter the above file to replace

 * `BUCKET_NAME` with `{{ settings.CREDENTIALS_BUCKET }}`
 * `PATH/TO/CREDENTIALS` with `{{ settings.CREDENTIALS_KEY }}`
 * `my.elasticbeanstalk.iam.role` to `{{ settings.EB_IAM_ROLE }}`

Once those pieces are in place, put that file at `YOUR_APP_NAME/templates/credentials.config.tmpl` and set `MAKECONF_MAP` to something like:
 
 	{'.ebextensions/01_credentials.config': 'credentials.config.tmpl'}
 	
Then run `python manage.py makeconf` with the correct config file for each tier during each deploy build. e.g. for QA, you'd run the following command to build your `.ebextensions` file:

	DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=config.settings.qa python manage.py makeconf


##  IAM role

You're going to need an IAM role with permissions to the buckets you're storing your credentials.py files in. You'll need the following properties on the buckets you're using:

 * `s3:ListBucketVersions`
 * `s3:GetObjectVersion`
 * `s3:ListBucket`
 * `s3:GetObject`

And you'll want to allow `s3:ListAllMyBucket` for all resources.


## Deploy

Make sure you include the `.ebextensions` file you just created in the zipfile you're senging to Elastic Beanstalk, and then it's rock & roll.